Pastor Brent McQuay: Foreign. Welcome back to another episode of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Between Sermons. I'm the host, Brent. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: get to be the lead pastor here
Pastor Brent McQuay: at Disciples Church in Tinley Park, Illinois.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And we are continuing our conversation from
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sunday. We've been in the book of
Pastor Brent McQuay: First Peter. It's been so much fun
Pastor Brent McQuay: just digging into scripture and trying to
Pastor Brent McQuay: find ways that we can apply it
Pastor Brent McQuay: to our lives today. It was written
Pastor Brent McQuay: 2000 years ago to a group of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christians scattered throughout modern day Turkey. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: yet somehow when we read it today,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's like. It's like Peter is writing
Pastor Brent McQuay: it for us right now. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's a pretty amazing book that we
Pastor Brent McQuay: are digging through. And so we're going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to turn some of that monologue from
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sunday into real dialogue where we're able
Pastor Brent McQuay: to talk out these ideas and maybe
Pastor Brent McQuay: dig at more of the. The practical
Pastor Brent McQuay: side of some of this stuff. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: in order to have a good conversation,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we need good people to talk with.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so I am joined, as always,
Pastor Brent McQuay: by the one and only Taisha. How
Pastor Brent McQuay: you doing?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yay. I'm good. Why do I always
Ti'heasha Beasley: do that? Why do I always have
Ti'heasha Beasley: to have a sound effect?
Pastor Brent McQuay: So I don't know why you do
Pastor Brent McQuay: that, but I. I am curious why
Pastor Brent McQuay: you always have to say, why do
Pastor Brent McQuay: I always do that?
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, because it's like, I can't. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: do it in the moment. I'm like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: why did I do that? It's just.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I need a sound effect. Can we
Ti'heasha Beasley: add sound effects?
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then maybe I think part of
Pastor Brent McQuay: some. Some of that is just the.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The curse of communicators. Like, it's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's tons of times on Sunday where,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, I say something, I'm like, why
Pastor Brent McQuay: did I say that was the dumbest
Pastor Brent McQuay: dad joke possible? Like, why did I
Pastor Brent McQuay: do that? Why did that just come
Pastor Brent McQuay: out of my mouth?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. I'm a work hard not to
Ti'heasha Beasley: do that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's a comedian. I forget if it's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's either Brian Regan or Jim Gaffigan
Pastor Brent McQuay: where he's like, I think it's Brian
Pastor Brent McQuay: Regan. He's like, oh, no, words are
Pastor Brent McQuay: coming out. It's like, like sometimes, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like I feel that way. Like, sometimes
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm on stage, I'm like, oh, words.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But, yeah, so here we are.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I can see that. I can see
Ti'heasha Beasley: fun times. But we are joined today
Ti'heasha Beasley: by Pastor Harry Valentine. How are you?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yo.
Harry Valentine: I am great. It's always a pleasure
Harry Valentine: to Pete to be words, words, words
Harry Valentine: are coming out. To be in the
Harry Valentine: house with the between sermons family. Such
Harry Valentine: an amazing time. So I'm excited for
Harry Valentine: the Conversation today.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. You are not a stranger to
Ti'heasha Beasley: the podcast. You always bless us with
Ti'heasha Beasley: your gems when you come through. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: welcome back in Praise God. The team
Ti'heasha Beasley: was kind of commenting. Today is the
Ti'heasha Beasley: first day of fall, and you are
Ti'heasha Beasley: ready.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Fall.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So tell us what you're wearing. Tell
Ti'heasha Beasley: us what you got on.
Harry Valentine: So you may not be able to
Harry Valentine: see my pants, but I have on
Harry Valentine: brown leather pants.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Swag.
Harry Valentine: See, there we go. Hey, they made
Harry Valentine: sure that you could get the shot,
Harry Valentine: so. And my wife did not pick
Harry Valentine: this out for me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Your wife didn't pick it out?
Harry Valentine: She did not, man.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Cause she's the fashion.
Harry Valentine: But you know what? I did do
Harry Valentine: a fact check. I said, is this
Harry Valentine: okay? And she said, yeah, you're good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Ready to go.
Pastor Brent McQuay: See, my wife also did not pick
Pastor Brent McQuay: out my outfit, but I don't think
Pastor Brent McQuay: that comes as a surprise to any
Pastor Brent McQuay: one because they're like, sometimes Brent looks
Pastor Brent McQuay: really good, and sometimes Brent looks really
Pastor Brent McQuay: comfortable.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, that's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: If I look really good, Sol picked
Pastor Brent McQuay: it out. If I look really comfortable,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I picked it out.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay, that's a good way.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yes. There you go. I don't have
Pastor Brent McQuay: the brown leather pants, man.
Harry Valentine: Fall ready?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Fall ready. I love it. We, for
Ti'heasha Beasley: the first time, coordinate it because typically
Ti'heasha Beasley: we're off. I either have on pink
Ti'heasha Beasley: and you have one.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We're coordinated color wise.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Style.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I know aesthetic. Like, I. I know.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm ready to, like, watch a movie.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I know.
Harry Valentine: I know a game here.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, you're ready for a business conference.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I am. Like, it is so funny
Ti'heasha Beasley: because David is always like, every time
Ti'heasha Beasley: you leave the house, look like you
Ti'heasha Beasley: supposed to go on stage. And I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: like this. I just love. It's a
Ti'heasha Beasley: corporate American type of thing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's your look.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. I've been in corporate America too
Ti'heasha Beasley: long.
Pastor Brent McQuay: My look is hoodie and jeans.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. No, you can. I've seen you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: No, no, no. This is my look.
Ti'heasha Beasley: This is your. Okay, that's your look.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The other look is Sol's look for
Pastor Brent McQuay: me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Got it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So we have Sol's look, and then
Pastor Brent McQuay: we have my look for me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I love it. Okay, so now we
Ti'heasha Beasley: know the difference. But no, we are
Ti'heasha Beasley: still, like you said in the book,
Ti'heasha Beasley: first Peter, before we dive into conversation,
Ti'heasha Beasley: Pastor Harry, how's it been for you?
Ti'heasha Beasley: How has this book been chopping you
Ti'heasha Beasley: up, breaking you down, twisting you all
Ti'heasha Beasley: around?
Harry Valentine: You know, the word itself is always,
Harry Valentine: you know, challenging. It should be convicting.
Harry Valentine: Right. It should be encouraging. And I
Harry Valentine: think Peter and where he's kind of
Harry Valentine: coming from, of course, you gave us
Harry Valentine: the context of who he's speaking to.
Harry Valentine: But as the believer right today, it
Harry Valentine: still applies. And so for me personally,
Harry Valentine: it's just this opportunity to have a
Harry Valentine: reflection of self, to see where you
Harry Valentine: are as you're reading this letter from
Harry Valentine: Paul. Because, you know, seasons change, right.
Harry Valentine: And so something you may not have
Harry Valentine: dealt with in terms of the things
Harry Valentine: that he speaks about getting rid of,
Harry Valentine: you know, justify few months ago or
Harry Valentine: maybe a year, maybe something in life
Harry Valentine: have changed where you have now have
Harry Valentine: to be that much more intentional about
Harry Valentine: those very areas. So I think it's
Harry Valentine: opportunity to take a look at self
Harry Valentine: and to ensure that, you know, the
Harry Valentine: spiritual house that he's speaking about, that
Harry Valentine: you're actually, you know, building that the
Harry Valentine: proper way. So that's kind of been
Harry Valentine: my reflection since. I mean, it's only
Harry Valentine: been two chapters.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I know. I mean it feels heavier
Ti'heasha Beasley: than two chapters.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's because it took us three weeks
Pastor Brent McQuay: to get through the two.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, that was still like yesterday. Could
Pastor Brent McQuay: have been probably a four week series.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Absolutely. I agree.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I was like, I'm talking so
Pastor Brent McQuay: fast and I'm watching the clock just
Pastor Brent McQuay: crash on me. I'm like, I gotta
Pastor Brent McQuay: go. Yeah. So you did something just
Pastor Brent McQuay: now and I'm curious if anybody was
Pastor Brent McQuay: tracking yesterday how many times I did
Pastor Brent McQuay: the same thing. You said Paul instead
Pastor Brent McQuay: of Peter. And it's like I, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I catch myself so much like Peter
Pastor Brent McQuay: and Paul. Like it's just it. Yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: come on, man. It's like they're both
Pastor Brent McQuay: the guys that write. They start with
Pastor Brent McQuay: the letter P. And so I'm really
Pastor Brent McQuay: curious. Somebody should go back and like
Pastor Brent McQuay: re watch this series and just count
Pastor Brent McQuay: how many times said Paul instead of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter. Because I bet it's a bunch.
Harry Valentine: Yeah, it does.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And you don't even catch it when
Pastor Brent McQuay: you don't do it, you know, because.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And I didn't even hear it. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: heard Peter.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Harry Valentine: And in my mind I heard Peter
Harry Valentine: too. And I said it. I thought
Harry Valentine: I said it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep. They'll play back the video and
Pastor Brent McQuay: they'll be like, nope.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He said crazy.
Harry Valentine: But you're so right. Like they are
Harry Valentine: the pillars of the face.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Harry Valentine: You know, and so interchangeably we use
Harry Valentine: them like that. But yeah, it's been
Harry Valentine: a great opportunity. Great opportunity for conversation
Harry Valentine: too in groups, even with my family,
Harry Valentine: you know, to really talk this through
Harry Valentine: about how we are called right. To
Harry Valentine: make sure that we are with the
Harry Valentine: living stones and how we're actually placing
Harry Valentine: those living stones in a proper place.
Harry Valentine: So, yeah, I'm here.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, you, you jumping Ahead with the
Ti'heasha Beasley: living stones that we're gonna get to
Ti'heasha Beasley: the building. But I would love for
Ti'heasha Beasley: you, Pastor Brent, as always, for those
Ti'heasha Beasley: who didn't have an opportunity to hear
Ti'heasha Beasley: the message on Sunday, just do a
Ti'heasha Beasley: quick recap so they're not completely lost
Ti'heasha Beasley: in the conversation. Quick recap. Well, don't
Ti'heasha Beasley: talk fast. Cause yesterday.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I guess so. I guess the. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: best recap I can give is. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter writes this letter. The overall message
Pastor Brent McQuay: is, life bad, God good. Hang on.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so in chapter two, he's. He's
Pastor Brent McQuay: going through some of the ways that
Pastor Brent McQuay: we should live in this life. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: when life is bad, when God is
Pastor Brent McQuay: good, when we're trying to hang on,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, how do. How do we behave?
Pastor Brent McQuay: How do we live? Like, overall, he
Pastor Brent McQuay: talks a lot about being strangers and
Pastor Brent McQuay: exiles. Like, we're not of this world.
Pastor Brent McQuay: This isn't our home. You've been born
Pastor Brent McQuay: again, so live like it. And chapter
Pastor Brent McQuay: two is very. It's very much the
Pastor Brent McQuay: application. Further application to what he set
Pastor Brent McQuay: up. Chapter one is almost like the
Pastor Brent McQuay: introduction and the overview. And then chapter
Pastor Brent McQuay: two starts getting more into, like, do
Pastor Brent McQuay: this, do this, do this, do this.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so if we break it down
Pastor Brent McQuay: across those 25 verses, Peter basically gives
Pastor Brent McQuay: us five instructions. Like, in your new
Pastor Brent McQuay: life in Christ, these are the five
Pastor Brent McQuay: things that you need to do. You
Pastor Brent McQuay: need to put it away, and we'll
Pastor Brent McQuay: talk about what that is in a
Pastor Brent McQuay: second. So you got to put some
Pastor Brent McQuay: stuff away. You need to crave the
Pastor Brent McQuay: word of God. You need to proclaim
Pastor Brent McQuay: him being Jesus. You need to win
Pastor Brent McQuay: the war, and you need to honor
Pastor Brent McQuay: everyone. And he just kind of. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: hits those five things, like, over and
Pastor Brent McQuay: over. And there's, like, other commands or
Pastor Brent McQuay: instructions that he gives, but they're really
Pastor Brent McQuay: tied into one of those five things
Pastor Brent McQuay: that he just kind of walks through.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so because you've been born again,
Pastor Brent McQuay: here's what you should be doing.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, Like, I started before we even
Ti'heasha Beasley: got into the podcast. I said it
Ti'heasha Beasley: feels like just rereading it. It's a
Ti'heasha Beasley: continuation of chapter one, even the intro.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And so you said something that was
Ti'heasha Beasley: just. I loved how you said it,
Ti'heasha Beasley: but.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, I think I even said it
Pastor Brent McQuay: on Sunday. Like, this is the benefit
Pastor Brent McQuay: of. Of sitting down and reading an
Pastor Brent McQuay: entire book of the Bible in one
Pastor Brent McQuay: sitting.
Harry Valentine: Like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, we've gotten so used to my
Pastor Brent McQuay: verse of the day. And then we've
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, okay, to try and elevate from
Pastor Brent McQuay: the verse today. Let's read the chapter
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the day. Yeah, but when. When
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter wrote this letter, like, he. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: didn't Expect his audience to read the
Pastor Brent McQuay: first few pages and then put it
Pastor Brent McQuay: on the shelf and then come back
Pastor Brent McQuay: to it a week later or a
Pastor Brent McQuay: month later and read the rest like
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's, it's a letter. Like it's, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: meant to be read as a letter.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I use the example on Sunday,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, if your grandma wrote you a
Pastor Brent McQuay: letter, and I use grandma because I
Pastor Brent McQuay: can't think of anybody else's writing these
Pastor Brent McQuay: days, but maybe your grandma still writes
Pastor Brent McQuay: a letter or you get an email,
Pastor Brent McQuay: are you going to drop down to
Pastor Brent McQuay: like the third paragraph, read that paragraph,
Pastor Brent McQuay: ignore everything else in the email and
Pastor Brent McQuay: be like, all right, I'll come back
Pastor Brent McQuay: to that later.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, no, like you're gonna read the
Pastor Brent McQuay: whole thing to understand the context, to
Pastor Brent McQuay: understand the message. And so while, while
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter is, is broken up into five
Pastor Brent McQuay: chapters, it is really one message. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's why I wanted in that intro
Pastor Brent McQuay: to kind of give you like, hey,
Pastor Brent McQuay: this is where we're going. Yeah, this
Pastor Brent McQuay: is what he's talking about across these
Pastor Brent McQuay: five. And, and we had a much
Pastor Brent McQuay: longer version than the life bad, God,
Pastor Brent McQuay: good, hang on. But like, that long
Pastor Brent McQuay: version, it's is long, it's hard to
Pastor Brent McQuay: remember. But life bad, God good, hang
Pastor Brent McQuay: on, is easy. And if you wanted
Pastor Brent McQuay: to also throw in there, you've been
Pastor Brent McQuay: born again, therefore live like it. Like
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's, that's the other part of what
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's talking about, the holiness.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So. And maybe you mentioned this already,
Ti'heasha Beasley: but it's just coming to mind right
Ti'heasha Beasley: now, who I know. So did he
Ti'heasha Beasley: write this letter to just all believers
Ti'heasha Beasley: or was there a specific church or
Ti'heasha Beasley: body of people he wrote the letter
Ti'heasha Beasley: to?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, so we talked about that in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the first week. So it's a little
Pastor Brent McQuay: bit of both. So there's not a
Pastor Brent McQuay: specific church he actually addresses. In the
Pastor Brent McQuay: very first verse of chapter one, he
Pastor Brent McQuay: addresses five different provinces of the Roman
Pastor Brent McQuay: Empire in Asia Minor, which. That sounds
Pastor Brent McQuay: like a bunch of weirdness. It Turkey.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, if you were to travel to
Pastor Brent McQuay: Turkey, you would be traveling to these
Pastor Brent McQuay: five places. Okay. So it's all within
Pastor Brent McQuay: modern day Turkey, which is actually like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think, like sometimes people don't realize
Pastor Brent McQuay: like the Ephesus and several. Like a
Pastor Brent McQuay: bunch in Revelation, when you're reading about
Pastor Brent McQuay: all these churches and stuff, like a
Pastor Brent McQuay: bunch of them are in Turkey. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, Turkey was like a major hot
Pastor Brent McQuay: spot for Christianity outside of Rome. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: it was like Jerusalem, Rome, Turkey.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so if you wanted to like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: track through like Christian history and like
Pastor Brent McQuay: where the church was started and stuff,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you. You would need to go to
Pastor Brent McQuay: modern day Turkey and explore that, which
Pastor Brent McQuay: is kind of cool. We've got missions
Pastor Brent McQuay: partners in the area, so it's kind
Pastor Brent McQuay: of fun. But yeah. So he's writing
Pastor Brent McQuay: to scattered Christians in that area of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the world. But he writes, we call
Pastor Brent McQuay: it a circular letter. And so the
Pastor Brent McQuay: idea behind the letter is it's not
Pastor Brent McQuay: for Taisha, it's for Taisha to read
Pastor Brent McQuay: and then give to Harry and then
Pastor Brent McQuay: Harry's gonna read it and give it
Pastor Brent McQuay: to Brent, then Brent's gonna read it
Pastor Brent McQuay: and give it to Andy and then
Pastor Brent McQuay: Andy's gonna read it and he's gonna
Pastor Brent McQuay: give it to pretty like it's, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: gonna be circulated.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like that's the intent of the letters
Pastor Brent McQuay: and that's, that's what happens to all
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the, the New Testament letters, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: New Testament writings. But this one in
Pastor Brent McQuay: particular was like the intent from the
Pastor Brent McQuay: beginning was pass it around.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. So it's. So I'm thinking about
Ti'heasha Beasley: his intentions with writing this letter because
Ti'heasha Beasley: he addressed, he's like very specific of
Ti'heasha Beasley: the things he's addressing. Right. And we're
Ti'heasha Beasley: going to get to some of those
Ti'heasha Beasley: like wives and husbands. But in this
Ti'heasha Beasley: particular chapter it was like people over
Ti'heasha Beasley: you in authority. He sounds like a
Ti'heasha Beasley: modern day influence. Right. And I know
Ti'heasha Beasley: before you start developing your get it,
Ti'heasha Beasley: get it together.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Roll it out, roll it out.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He sounds like a modern day influencer.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And so in my mind, because I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: still wrestling with how as believers we
Ti'heasha Beasley: should be responding to what's going on
Ti'heasha Beasley: in the world. Like is that level
Ti'heasha Beasley: of influence and addressing the church? Do
Ti'heasha Beasley: you think that's something that's a practice
Ti'heasha Beasley: that should be done with or are
Ti'heasha Beasley: people using their social media platforms? Like
Ti'heasha Beasley: is it okay for people to use
Ti'heasha Beasley: their social media platforms to address what
Ti'heasha Beasley: is happening here in 2025? You can
Ti'heasha Beasley: have thoughts after passing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's, that's a really interesting question. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't know that I would categorize category.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Categorize, yes. Those things in the same
Pastor Brent McQuay: way. Because I think like when you
Pastor Brent McQuay: talk about a modern day influencer, my
Pastor Brent McQuay: picture of that is social media influencers.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that is not what Peter was
Pastor Brent McQuay: like. Peter was the head of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: church. Like so, like, like so his,
Pastor Brent McQuay: his authority wasn't like clout or standing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: In fact, he even, he even downplays
Pastor Brent McQuay: his own authority. In First Peter, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think it comes up, maybe it's in
Pastor Brent McQuay: chapter five. I forget somewhere in there
Pastor Brent McQuay: he refers to himself as a fellow
Pastor Brent McQuay: elder. And so he's, he's putting himself
Pastor Brent McQuay: on the same playing Field with, with
Pastor Brent McQuay: the other elders of the church. Even
Pastor Brent McQuay: though, like, his, his role, Peter, James
Pastor Brent McQuay: and John had a higher status than,
Pastor Brent McQuay: than the rest. And then Paul as
Pastor Brent McQuay: well. And so like, he kind of.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't think he's trying to get
Pastor Brent McQuay: clout or getting like, like, y' all
Pastor Brent McQuay: need to listen to me, like, for
Pastor Brent McQuay: these reasons. Like, he's extremely humble. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: then he, he addresses things that are
Pastor Brent McQuay: happening in the times, but not, not
Pastor Brent McQuay: the way an influencer would be. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's not coming out and saying anything
Pastor Brent McQuay: pro or con against Emperor Nero. Would
Pastor Brent McQuay: have been very easy at the time
Pastor Brent McQuay: to say lots of things about Nero,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but he recognized that wasn't his place,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that wasn't like, what his purpose was.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so he simply says to honor
Pastor Brent McQuay: the emperor. Doesn't say, hey, the, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: emperor is being a jerk to Christians.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, we can write him off. Or
Pastor Brent McQuay: here's, here's where we're going to all
Pastor Brent McQuay: gather so we can start a protest
Pastor Brent McQuay: about the emperor, or here's where we
Pastor Brent McQuay: hide the weapon stash so that we
Pastor Brent McQuay: can all fight against it. No, he
Pastor Brent McQuay: doesn't say any of that stuff. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: just says, and honor, honor the emperor.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it's like one statement in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: midst of all this other stuff. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: that one statement, like, if you're living
Pastor Brent McQuay: under Emperor Nero at that time and
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're reading that like that's the double
Pastor Brent McQuay: take moment. You're like, whoa, that must
Pastor Brent McQuay: have, that must have been a typo.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I must have miss. Misread that one.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But yeah, so I don't, I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: know that I'd get fully on board
Pastor Brent McQuay: with you. Did he have influence? Yes,
Pastor Brent McQuay: absolutely would. I would. If he was
Pastor Brent McQuay: a modern day. Would I expect him
Pastor Brent McQuay: to have like a TikTok account?
Ti'heasha Beasley: He would, he would. I believe Paul,
Ti'heasha Beasley: Peter, I believe all the disciples would
Ti'heasha Beasley: have, they would have been on TikTok.
Ti'heasha Beasley: They would have social media. I really
Ti'heasha Beasley: do believe that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, I would make the argument
Pastor Brent McQuay: for Paul probably even more than Peter.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Paul was very much like, let's get
Pastor Brent McQuay: this message to as many people however
Pastor Brent McQuay: we can.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter was a little bit more like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm going to pastor you and I
Pastor Brent McQuay: just want to sit and be with
Pastor Brent McQuay: you. And. And he did. He did
Pastor Brent McQuay: preach when he had opportunity in front
Pastor Brent McQuay: of crowds and stuff. But I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: know.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I don't know that it's something to
Ti'heasha Beasley: think about.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Maybe, Maybe.
Ti'heasha Beasley: What's your take?
Harry Valentine: Yeah, I think you mentioned in terms
Harry Valentine: of like, you know, our culture today
Harry Valentine: and kind of the, the tension that
Harry Valentine: we are experiencing in this lifetime. And
Harry Valentine: having a voice to kind of speak
Harry Valentine: to that someone that is. We use
Harry Valentine: influencer, but more of a voice. I
Harry Valentine: love what you said about Peter. It's
Harry Valentine: ultimately being called to as a voice
Harry Valentine: in the, you know, a mouthpiece of
Harry Valentine: God. It's just to help the believer
Harry Valentine: establish, you know, the way that we
Harry Valentine: should live according to God's will. And
Harry Valentine: so that's the priority. And even if
Harry Valentine: he, you know, felt a way about
Harry Valentine: Nero, that's kind of personal to him,
Harry Valentine: you know, is not what God would
Harry Valentine: want him to do, is this is
Harry Valentine: how we honor, you know, those who
Harry Valentine: are in authority. So if anything, if
Harry Valentine: we look at it like our social
Harry Valentine: media platforms and our influence today, it's
Harry Valentine: come from a personal place. You know,
Harry Valentine: it's more me I versus God, you
Harry Valentine: know, being the focal of what the
Harry Valentine: believer should be. So I think if
Harry Valentine: I had to look at those two,
Harry Valentine: for sure, it is a difference. But
Harry Valentine: in terms of a voice being raised
Harry Valentine: up, I think the word of God
Harry Valentine: is. Is enough for us. You know,
Harry Valentine: he's already spoken exactly what he wants
Harry Valentine: us to do and say. And so
Harry Valentine: if we just preach that, then the
Harry Valentine: outcomes of this life is. Is already
Harry Valentine: contributed to.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. None of that to say, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christians can't be influencers or Christians can't,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, be a voice on social media.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think that's great. I think it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: awesome. But understanding, like, what. What the
Pastor Brent McQuay: role and responsibility was. And then I
Pastor Brent McQuay: just also want to highlight, like, Peter's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not just getting these ideas out of
Pastor Brent McQuay: thin air, like, to honor the emperor.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, he's. He's modeling what Jesus did.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, Jesus had to give to Caesar
Pastor Brent McQuay: what Caesar's like. He. He. There was
Pastor Brent McQuay: multiple times when. When Jesus had the
Pastor Brent McQuay: opportunity to fight back against them, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's like, no, I mean, Peter's the
Pastor Brent McQuay: guy remember that pulled out his sword
Pastor Brent McQuay: to cut off the ear of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: guy coming to arrest Jesus. And Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: said, stop it. Put that sword away.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Puts the ear back on the guy's
Pastor Brent McQuay: head and is like, hey, we're good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Forgive him. He was out of line.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, so, like, that's. That's. That's the
Pastor Brent McQuay: guy that has to be like, oh,
Pastor Brent McQuay: okay. So Jesus wasn't going around saying,
Pastor Brent McQuay: caesar's the worst. Yeah, okay. All right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So Nero's doing some really bad things,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but Jesus respected the position and honored
Pastor Brent McQuay: the person in it and told us
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do the same.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I mean, I just think that paints
Ti'heasha Beasley: a very vivid picture. And just even
Ti'heasha Beasley: thinking about what we're going through now
Ti'heasha Beasley: and then Taking it back to when
Ti'heasha Beasley: Peter wrote this letter of just what
Ti'heasha Beasley: was happening around him. So let's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's wild.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was crazy for him to feel
Ti'heasha Beasley: like he had to address these things.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It was.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was that heavy. So you broke
Ti'heasha Beasley: it down into five kind of like
Ti'heasha Beasley: points. Did you do it? Let's go
Ti'heasha Beasley: through those again because I want to
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, did you do it? Compared to
Ti'heasha Beasley: like taking those passages of like a
Ti'heasha Beasley: block of scriptures and adding a point,
Ti'heasha Beasley: or was it just like five overall
Ti'heasha Beasley: points that you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: No, they, they. They flow in that
Pastor Brent McQuay: same order. So verse one is put
Pastor Brent McQuay: it away. Verse two is crave the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Word. And then it kind of flows
Pastor Brent McQuay: from there. I'd have to pull up
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible again. But like, his closing thought
Pastor Brent McQuay: is about honor. And that's where he
Pastor Brent McQuay: says, like, you could have more action
Pastor Brent McQuay: steps. Cuz like the last thing he
Pastor Brent McQuay: says about honor, he says honor everyone.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What is it? Honor everyone. Love the
Pastor Brent McQuay: church. No, there's a. He uses a
Pastor Brent McQuay: different word. What does he use for
Pastor Brent McQuay: that? It's fear God and then honor
Pastor Brent McQuay: the emperor. Last. What's number two in
Pastor Brent McQuay: there? He says to the brotherhood. Love
Pastor Brent McQuay: the brotherhood.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm like, I know that he said
Pastor Brent McQuay: it in a unique way. Yeah. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, so you could add those action
Pastor Brent McQuay: steps in it. But I think that
Pastor Brent McQuay: what he was getting at there ties
Pastor Brent McQuay: into everything else too. But. Yeah, so,
Pastor Brent McQuay: so put it away is how he
Pastor Brent McQuay: starts off. So put away all malice
Pastor Brent McQuay: and all that stuff.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then he goes on to say,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, newborn infants crave the pure spiritual
Pastor Brent McQuay: milk. And we talked about how the
Pastor Brent McQuay: pure spiritual milk in that context of
Pastor Brent McQuay: what he's talking about, and because of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Greek word play there, he's talking
Pastor Brent McQuay: about the Word of God. So we're
Pastor Brent McQuay: to crave the Word of God. Like
Pastor Brent McQuay: newborn babies are craving milk. Like he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: painting this picture. And so that's why
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're going to crave the Word. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: then from there, he says a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: about how we are to abstain from
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Passion. Well, first he talks about
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're to proclaim him.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So we're all of this new priesthood.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We've been ordained in the priesthood. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: are now the temple. Like all this
Pastor Brent McQuay: stuff. It's so that we can proclaim
Pastor Brent McQuay: the excellencies of him who called us
Pastor Brent McQuay: out of darkness into his marvelous light.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, that's the. Like, what are you
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing as a. As a disciple if
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're not proclaiming Jesus? Like, we need
Pastor Brent McQuay: to calm down. Proclaiming ourselves or proclaiming
Pastor Brent McQuay: other people. We need to be proclaiming
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus like that's that's the mission. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then from there, he talks about
Pastor Brent McQuay: abstaining from the passions of the flesh.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's waging war against your soul. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so the fourth action step that I
Pastor Brent McQuay: gave was, we need to win that
Pastor Brent McQuay: war. Like, he's. He's describing, like, this.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's this war going on inside of
Pastor Brent McQuay: you, and he doesn't necessarily flat out
Pastor Brent McQuay: say, you should win it, but, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's the implication. Yeah. Why would he
Pastor Brent McQuay: describe a war that you're gonna lose
Pastor Brent McQuay: or that you should lose? Like, yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: so we want to win the war.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And the last thing he says is
Pastor Brent McQuay: to honor the emperor. Then he says,
Pastor Brent McQuay: honor everyone, and then he says, honor
Pastor Brent McQuay: the emperor. Like, he repeats himself several
Pastor Brent McQuay: times.
Harry Valentine: So.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So we just turn that into honor
Pastor Brent McQuay: everyone. There's your five action steps all
Pastor Brent McQuay: built into the scripture, going from verse
Pastor Brent McQuay: one all the way to verse 20,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and then 21 to 25, he kind
Pastor Brent McQuay: of wraps up this thought process he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: having by presenting the gospel.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, yeah. No, that's very beneficial to,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, help as you're reading through and
Ti'heasha Beasley: looking at the app and looking at
Ti'heasha Beasley: Scripture, because when I was reading it
Ti'heasha Beasley: again, it's so much meat.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's saying a lot.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He's saying a lot. So I don't
Ti'heasha Beasley: even know if we'll be able to
Ti'heasha Beasley: cover everything, but I definitely want to
Ti'heasha Beasley: start with verse one.
Harry Valentine: Yeah, for sure.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So. So put away all malice and
Ti'heasha Beasley: deceit and hypocrisy and envy and slander.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Whoa.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Put it away.
Harry Valentine: Whoa. Now, again, he's. This letter is
Harry Valentine: to the believer, and so he's speaking
Harry Valentine: to the behaviors of us. And I
Harry Valentine: think that's the point that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We'Re Christians that have been doing these
Pastor Brent McQuay: things.
Harry Valentine: Don't think about the world like, this
Harry Valentine: is for you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And.
Harry Valentine: Right. And so oftentimes we think that,
Harry Valentine: is this in the house? We're so
Harry Valentine: offended when we come across the slander.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, he's speaking to us because this.
Harry Valentine: Is the issues that the believers are
Harry Valentine: dealing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's calling out our slander of others.
Harry Valentine: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We don't have to worry about others.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, people outside of the church slandering
Pastor Brent McQuay: the church. Like, he addresses that. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, they're going to do that, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: because of your good deeds, they're going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to look like idiots. Right. That's the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Brent McQuay paraphrase. But essentially that's what
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's saying. Like, if, like, the people
Pastor Brent McQuay: outside of the church are doing these
Pastor Brent McQuay: things, but you are doing good. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: if you have put away all of
Pastor Brent McQuay: this passion of the flesh. And you
Pastor Brent McQuay: have lived in this holy conduct and
Pastor Brent McQuay: all this stuff, then even when they
Pastor Brent McQuay: try and say, man, that Christian is
Pastor Brent McQuay: so evil or that Christian is so
Pastor Brent McQuay: bad. And you're like, look at how
Pastor Brent McQuay: I fed the hungry and I took
Pastor Brent McQuay: care of the poor and I was
Pastor Brent McQuay: loving my brother and I was doing
Pastor Brent McQuay: all like, what point at what I
Pastor Brent McQuay: did that was wrong, Right? Yeah, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: fun.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It sounds easier said, done.
Harry Valentine: Yeah. No, no.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Simple things are never easy things. No.
Harry Valentine: Yeah, I think too, yesterday we were
Harry Valentine: talking about it and it's, you know,
Harry Valentine: talking about the fleshly things like the
Harry Valentine: flesh and those issues of the flesh.
Harry Valentine: And I just made this. This point
Harry Valentine: of, this statement of how if you
Harry Valentine: don't kill yourself or not kill yourself,
Harry Valentine: but die to the flesh, right? Then
Harry Valentine: your spirit is not going to mature
Harry Valentine: or grow. Like, it's not by default,
Harry Valentine: if you feed your spirit, then your
Harry Valentine: flesh dies. Right? And so you have
Harry Valentine: to have this balance. He's like, get
Harry Valentine: rid of these things, right? In order
Harry Valentine: for you to begin to get nourishment
Harry Valentine: from the word of God, you have
Harry Valentine: to remove the junk, Right. Remove these
Harry Valentine: things from your life, your behaviors. And
Harry Valentine: I just think it's important for us
Harry Valentine: to keep those at the forefront of
Harry Valentine: what we're doing and how we're doing
Harry Valentine: it as believers, because they are representation
Harry Valentine: of who we are. If we're proclaiming
Harry Valentine: God as our Lord and Savior, we
Harry Valentine: have to be representative of that. And
Harry Valentine: so he's just helping us to identify,
Harry Valentine: like, hey, deal with this. And then
Harry Valentine: I'm going to take this away, but
Harry Valentine: then I'm going to give you this
Harry Valentine: as a replacement for that. And so
Harry Valentine: it's this exchange that we have to
Harry Valentine: have.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like it. So. So I pulled out
Pastor Brent McQuay: my Bible because my phone with the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible app on it got you because.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So I love the esv, the English
Pastor Brent McQuay: Standard Version. That's. That's the translation that
Pastor Brent McQuay: I use when I teach. 90% of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the time, it's what we've been walking
Pastor Brent McQuay: through First Peter using. And I like
Pastor Brent McQuay: it because it tries to be really
Pastor Brent McQuay: faithful to the original language. And I
Pastor Brent McQuay: like it because when it uses words
Pastor Brent McQuay: that maybe aren't as common, it forces
Pastor Brent McQuay: me to actually stop and think about
Pastor Brent McQuay: that word and why it's used. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: sometimes, like, we can hear the word,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, malice and not really know exactly
Pastor Brent McQuay: what that is. So I wanted to
Pastor Brent McQuay: just read verse one in the erv
Pastor Brent McQuay: and this, this is where, like, this
Pastor Brent McQuay: is like your Bible study lesson is
Pastor Brent McQuay: having multiple translations is really good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, being able to go back and
Pastor Brent McQuay: forth between something that's putting it into
Pastor Brent McQuay: language you can understand a little bit
Pastor Brent McQuay: better and something that's a little more
Pastor Brent McQuay: faithful to the original. We would call
Pastor Brent McQuay: that like word for word or thought
Pastor Brent McQuay: for thought. And so yeah, so that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: the, the nerd moment. But so first
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter, chapter two, verse one in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: easy to read version. So then stop
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing anything to hurt others. Don't lie
Pastor Brent McQuay: anymore and stop trying to fool people.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Don't be jealous or say bad things
Pastor Brent McQuay: about others.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Man, you can't get no straightforward, easy
Ti'heasha Beasley: to read.
Harry Valentine: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it's, it's saying all of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: same things.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So he says malice, stop doing anything
Pastor Brent McQuay: to hurt others. Deceit, don't lie anymore.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What was hypocrisy is the don't be
Pastor Brent McQuay: jealous or say bad things about others.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's slander. Like so like he's covering
Pastor Brent McQuay: like this, this translation is covering the
Pastor Brent McQuay: same concepts but in a much more
Pastor Brent McQuay: like just modern American language. Yeah. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so sometimes I would say like try
Pastor Brent McQuay: and read the Bible in a like
Pastor Brent McQuay: a word for word, a more direct
Pastor Brent McQuay: translation. But then keep a thought for
Pastor Brent McQuay: thought or a paraphrase or something that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like man, that's just my, my fifth
Pastor Brent McQuay: grade education. Can't handle that one.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so having those side by sides
Pastor Brent McQuay: can be beneficial. So stop doing anything
Pastor Brent McQuay: to hurt others, don't lie anymore, stop
Pastor Brent McQuay: trying to fool people and don't be
Pastor Brent McQuay: jealous or say bad things about others.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like I could tell my, my 10
Pastor Brent McQuay: year old daughter for sure that and.
Harry Valentine: Understood she's like now you need to.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Tell somebody 40 year olds. You need
Ti'heasha Beasley: to put that on social media today.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, because I was just sitting here
Ti'heasha Beasley: thinking like actually I don't want to
Ti'heasha Beasley: say this is a joke because this
Ti'heasha Beasley: is very serious to some people how
Ti'heasha Beasley: they're saying the world is going to
Ti'heasha Beasley: end tomorrow.
Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Or the 23rd. It's one of the
Ti'heasha Beasley: days.
Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The 23rd or 24th. It's based on
Pastor Brent McQuay: bad math and bad, bad A. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's all built off. Sorry, this is
Pastor Brent McQuay: random.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So that's relevant. If anybody's wondering why
Pastor Brent McQuay: people are saying the 23rd, 24th. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: all based on. There is a Jewish
Pastor Brent McQuay: holiday, there's a festival, the feast of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Trumpets I think is the one that
Pastor Brent McQuay: it is. That can happen on either
Pastor Brent McQuay: day. Or it's like a. Some people
Pastor Brent McQuay: say it can happen on either day.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It depends on when the new moon
Pastor Brent McQuay: is.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And all this stuff. Or it happens
Pastor Brent McQuay: across the span of two days. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so some people say, well if it
Pastor Brent McQuay: starts at the beginning of that feast,
Pastor Brent McQuay: then it would be on the 23rd.
Pastor Brent McQuay: If it's the end of the feast,
Pastor Brent McQuay: would be the 24th. And they say
Pastor Brent McQuay: all of that is. Literally all of
Pastor Brent McQuay: it is built on. Somebody made a
Pastor Brent McQuay: claim that this Jewish holiday is referred
Pastor Brent McQuay: to or known as the feast in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the day and hour that no one
Pastor Brent McQuay: knows. And so when Jesus says of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the end times, no one knows the
Pastor Brent McQuay: day or the hour. Like, that's what
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's. He's saying it's going to happen
Pastor Brent McQuay: during this feast is. And so then
Pastor Brent McQuay: they did math to try and come
Pastor Brent McQuay: up with this year is the year,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and it's. It's all. It's a hoax.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's dumb. Like, don't fall for it
Pastor Brent McQuay: just because somebody tells you this. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's literally nothing that will prove that
Pastor Brent McQuay: this holiday is referred to by that
Pastor Brent McQuay: name.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Or that the original audience would have
Pastor Brent McQuay: interpreted it that way. And if you
Pastor Brent McQuay: just read the rest of what he
Pastor Brent McQuay: talks about and then, like, his other
Pastor Brent McQuay: conversations with his disciples, other passages that
Pastor Brent McQuay: talk about not knowing, like, it's.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: At this point, the only day I
Pastor Brent McQuay: know Jesus isn't returning is the 23rd
Pastor Brent McQuay: or the 24th. Because there's no way
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus would be like, all right, I'll
Pastor Brent McQuay: just. I'll go ahead. This is one
Pastor Brent McQuay: of those things I think. I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: we made. I made a joke this
Pastor Brent McQuay: morning with you. We're like. You're like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I should call you and tell you
Pastor Brent McQuay: what to wear to the podcast. I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, literally, if you called me and
Pastor Brent McQuay: said wear black today, if I was
Pastor Brent McQuay: wearing black, I would take it off
Pastor Brent McQuay: and put on something else. Because that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just my personality.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so maybe I'm projecting on Jesus.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus. Like, I was planning on coming
Pastor Brent McQuay: back on the 23rd, but then all
Pastor Brent McQuay: these people kept saying it was going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to happen. I ain't doing it now.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, that's. That's. We'll see by
Pastor Brent McQuay: the time the day that this airs.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Either.
Harry Valentine: Either this air day is not right
Harry Valentine: at that point.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But yeah, don't worry about the. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: world ending.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And so the reason I'm just really,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like. The reason I even brought that
Ti'heasha Beasley: up is because.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Oh, yeah, you had a point. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: just fell over. I just interrupted your
Pastor Brent McQuay: flow of thought.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I think it's so relevant to what
Ti'heasha Beasley: is happening. All of this, Man First
Ti'heasha Beasley: Peter is so relevant to what is
Ti'heasha Beasley: happening. I feel like he's writing it
Ti'heasha Beasley: to us, like, in modern day. Because
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm, of course, scrolling social media. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: see that, and then I see, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: the three days of darkness. And then
Ti'heasha Beasley: I see people arguing over who's right
Ti'heasha Beasley: or who's wrong with, with all of
Ti'heasha Beasley: this stuff going on with politics and,
Ti'heasha Beasley: and I see Christians doing this. Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And that's the part. It's like the
Ti'heasha Beasley: world, they're just like eating their popcorn,
Ti'heasha Beasley: watching us go back and forth hating
Ti'heasha Beasley: each other. Oh, I've seen people say,
Ti'heasha Beasley: oh, I lost a good friend today
Ti'heasha Beasley: because she didn't agree with my, my
Ti'heasha Beasley: viewpoint. And I'm just like, you are
Ti'heasha Beasley: believers. This is not like you said.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And they were a good friend.
Ti'heasha Beasley: They were good friends up until that
Ti'heasha Beasley: moment.
Pastor Brent McQuay: This is the, the deal breaker.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And I'm like, did y' all read
Ti'heasha Beasley: for. Did y' all read First Peter,
Ti'heasha Beasley: chapter two, the first verse?
Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And that's what I mean. Like, it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: so relevant. But like, maybe for me
Ti'heasha Beasley: it seems simple, but what are some
Ti'heasha Beasley: action steps for people who are really
Ti'heasha Beasley: struggling right now with walking out, loving
Ti'heasha Beasley: someone who opposed. Oppose their opinion, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, hearing all of these false prophets.
Ti'heasha Beasley: How do we live in 2025 with
Ti'heasha Beasley: verse one?
Harry Valentine: Can I say something there, please? So
Harry Valentine: when Peter was writing, he, he gave
Harry Valentine: us the, the goal and that, that
Harry Valentine: we may mature in our salvation. Right.
Harry Valentine: And so when we see a lot
Harry Valentine: of this was happening with believers going
Harry Valentine: back and forth, what we see is
Harry Valentine: a lot of this immaturity of their
Harry Valentine: salvation. And so we could go to
Harry Valentine: church for 20 years and yet still
Harry Valentine: be one years old in our salvation
Harry Valentine: because we have not taken in the
Harry Valentine: word of God and allow for that
Harry Valentine: word to mature us. The way that
Harry Valentine: Peter is talking about, get rid of
Harry Valentine: this, be fed this right to get
Harry Valentine: the nourishments in order for your salvation
Harry Valentine: to mature. Because a believer, a mature
Harry Valentine: believer, these things, and this is not,
Harry Valentine: you know, being petty or directory, it's
Harry Valentine: just these things don't move you in
Harry Valentine: terms of what God is calling you
Harry Valentine: to do, to where it, you know,
Harry Valentine: separates the unity of the body. Yeah,
Harry Valentine: right. This is a conversation. If you
Harry Valentine: sit on one side, I sit on
Harry Valentine: the other, so be it. Right. The
Harry Valentine: intent of the Word of God is,
Harry Valentine: is that we would all come into
Harry Valentine: a unified body and presence of salvation
Harry Valentine: and to glorify him. And we're missing
Harry Valentine: a point here. We're going back and
Harry Valentine: forth about our opinions when the word
Harry Valentine: of God hasn't even established this, this
Harry Valentine: particular thought that you're speaking of. And
Harry Valentine: we just see a lot of division
Harry Valentine: centered around that. But I just think
Harry Valentine: we have to understand, like, the goal
Harry Valentine: of Peter and his writing in this
Harry Valentine: moment is though that we can mature
Harry Valentine: in our faith and we're just not
Harry Valentine: mature at all when we having these
Harry Valentine: type of conversations.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. I hate the distraction and division
Pastor Brent McQuay: that takes place in these spheres. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think the practical help for people
Pastor Brent McQuay: is to, as the poet once said,
Pastor Brent McQuay: check yourself before you wreck yourself.
Harry Valentine: There it is.
Ti'heasha Beasley: What poet?
Harry Valentine: There it is, bro.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Who said that?
Harry Valentine: The poet did. That's him.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The poet did.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't even remember. That was like
Pastor Brent McQuay: 90s. Wasn't that 90s? It is.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Who is that? Is that MC Hammer?
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't remember. Okay, somebody. Somebody's gonna
Pastor Brent McQuay: fact check it. Check yourself. But it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was rickety. Wreck yourself. Yep. You know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: are you gonna get.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I do.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Trying to get me canceled. Trying to
Pastor Brent McQuay: get me canceled. Ice Cube, come on
Pastor Brent McQuay: now. There we go. Thank you, Andy.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: No, I think that the. The best
Pastor Brent McQuay: advice I can give you is don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: read this verse thinking Peter's talking about
Pastor Brent McQuay: your neighbor or your spouse or your
Pastor Brent McQuay: friend or that guy you disagree with.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Read it as if he's talking to
Pastor Brent McQuay: you.
Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, am I guilty of any
Pastor Brent McQuay: of these things? And. And I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: you have to spend some time just
Pastor Brent McQuay: kind of walking through it. Look at
Pastor Brent McQuay: your social media history, look at your
Pastor Brent McQuay: text message threads, listen back to some
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the conversations you've had with people
Pastor Brent McQuay: and say, okay, is. Has there been.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Have I. Am I guilty of slander?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because, like, I, like, I don't think
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm ever guilty of slander, but, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: what if I have been? Like, have.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Have I been saying things in order
Pastor Brent McQuay: to damage others, that it's stuff that
Pastor Brent McQuay: isn't even true? Have I allowed. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: talked about in staff chapel this. Or
Pastor Brent McQuay: staff meeting this morning, like the envy
Pastor Brent McQuay: piece. Like, that's something that can creep
Pastor Brent McQuay: in.
Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And like, you don't even realize it,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but now all of a sudden it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, man, but that person said this,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and they got 50 likes and 25
Pastor Brent McQuay: comments. And I said this, and I
Pastor Brent McQuay: only got four, man, but that guy
Pastor Brent McQuay: doesn't even know what he's talking about.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And. Oh, like, now you're just demonstrating
Pastor Brent McQuay: your envy of their reach or their
Pastor Brent McQuay: influence. Like, that's weird.
Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, why would you do that? And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so I think that, yeah, just stop
Pastor Brent McQuay: and check myself. Like, am I guilty
Pastor Brent McQuay: of these things? Have I allowed these
Pastor Brent McQuay: things to creep in? And that's where
Pastor Brent McQuay: maybe you need to switch over to
Pastor Brent McQuay: the erv because it's really easy to
Pastor Brent McQuay: be like, I'm not guilty of malice.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Malice is like that. Yeah, that's a
Pastor Brent McQuay: big demonic. Yeah, like, I'm not. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't have malice. But then how does
Pastor Brent McQuay: the ERV translates to this? Stop doing
Pastor Brent McQuay: anything to hurt others.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Stop doing anything.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Oh, have I done something that hurt?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Well, yeah, like sadly, like Brent McQuay,
Pastor Brent McQuay: pastor of this church, I've done things
Pastor Brent McQuay: to hurt others and I'm not proud
Pastor Brent McQuay: of that. I'm not happy with that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I need to, I need to
Pastor Brent McQuay: stop, I need to check myself and
Pastor Brent McQuay: whoa, where am I? Where am I
Pastor Brent McQuay: guilty of doing these things? So I
Pastor Brent McQuay: love that, you know, and this is
Pastor Brent McQuay: one of the things that the ERV
Pastor Brent McQuay: loses that the ESV has. And that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: the word all. Like Peter uses the
Pastor Brent McQuay: word all three times in this list
Pastor Brent McQuay: of five things. And so it's this
Pastor Brent McQuay: idea that you got to get rid
Pastor Brent McQuay: of all of it. Like if there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: 1% still in you, you still got
Pastor Brent McQuay: work to do.
Harry Valentine: And he says in NIV of every
Harry Valentine: kind.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Every kind. That's where we translate the
Pastor Brent McQuay: word all.
Harry Valentine: Yeah, like in case it was something
Harry Valentine: else that you just. No, I've covered
Harry Valentine: everything.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep. I love that because it's like
Pastor Brent McQuay: a blanket statement where now it's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: well, you know, I haven't really been
Pastor Brent McQuay: lying to people, but I had like
Pastor Brent McQuay: a white lie. Every kind.
Harry Valentine: Every kind.
Pastor Brent McQuay: All of it.
Harry Valentine: Yes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: What is a white lie?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Let's a lie. I know up here
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's a lie. It's a.
Ti'heasha Beasley: What is a black lie.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's just a lie.
Ti'heasha Beasley: These are terms like I've heard a.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Why.
Pastor Brent McQuay: No, so like, so like in, in
Pastor Brent McQuay: language like when we say a white
Pastor Brent McQuay: lie, we're trying to downplay the severity.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like it was a small lie and
Pastor Brent McQuay: it was for their benefit. So it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just a little white lie. And I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't know the etymology of it, like
Pastor Brent McQuay: where it came from, but that's the
Pastor Brent McQuay: concept. But the reality is a lie
Pastor Brent McQuay: is a lie is a lie. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, you lied for the right motives,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you lied for the wrong motives. Still
Pastor Brent McQuay: a lie.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, yeah, that's true. Well, I do
Ti'heasha Beasley: like point two because it kind of
Ti'heasha Beasley: talks to your point about the maturity
Ti'heasha Beasley: of believers. And I feel like sometimes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And your, your point too, to stay
Ti'heasha Beasley: on track is crave the word. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: that goes with like verse too. Like
Ti'heasha Beasley: new born infants long for the pure.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Long for.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You want to say.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, like newborn infants. Like, it's just
Pastor Brent McQuay: such a good verse, unlike the Bible.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, like newborn infants long for the
Pastor Brent McQuay: pure spiritual milk. Yeah, yeah, it's so
Pastor Brent McQuay: good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And, and I, I like that passage
Ti'heasha Beasley: because I think somewhere else it talks
Ti'heasha Beasley: about new. It really, it Talks about
Ti'heasha Beasley: newborns, infants as well, in relations to
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, maturity. But in this one, it's.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's not saying, like, this is only
Ti'heasha Beasley: for new believers. Like, you know.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right, right.
Ti'heasha Beasley: This is for.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, there's a. There. Paul has a
Pastor Brent McQuay: moment where he uses a similar analogy,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but they're talking about two different things.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, like, we've got to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: careful of that. Like, so when Paul
Pastor Brent McQuay: refers to the milk, he's talking about
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's some meat in God's word and
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's some meat in, like, the maturity
Pastor Brent McQuay: that we're supposed to have. But you
Pastor Brent McQuay: guys are still acting like babies.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's one subject matter. Peter here is
Pastor Brent McQuay: saying, like a newborn craves milk. You
Pastor Brent McQuay: should be craving in the same way.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, they're describing two different things
Pastor Brent McQuay: happening. Yeah, that was a good, good
Pastor Brent McQuay: pull out.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, I thank you. No, I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: that's important. And I think you do
Ti'heasha Beasley: a great job leading us as disciples
Ti'heasha Beasley: church with just giving us, like, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: should crave the Word of God. Like
Ti'heasha Beasley: all disciples. Like, don't have your personal
Ti'heasha Beasley: opinion and don't pick up the Bible
Ti'heasha Beasley: when you want to. The Word of
Ti'heasha Beasley: God is the standard. And to your.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Just your wisdom that you're bringing to
Ti'heasha Beasley: the conversation, you can tell that it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: because you've been standing on the Word
Ti'heasha Beasley: like you stand on business.
Harry Valentine: You have to.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Harry Valentine: So, you know, I was in our
Harry Valentine: conversation yesterday after the service, which was
Harry Valentine: great. The sermon we were talking about.
Harry Valentine: So if I'm not craving the Word,
Harry Valentine: what am I craving? That would then
Harry Valentine: be reflective of how you live, you
Harry Valentine: know, and so garbage in, garbage out.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep.
Harry Valentine: Just. Just really take a look inside
Harry Valentine: to say, man, am I craving this
Harry Valentine: thing? And if so, I have to
Harry Valentine: let that go. Right. In order for.
Harry Valentine: In order to crave the Word, I
Harry Valentine: have to get rid of those cravings.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. It's interesting in our. In our
Pastor Brent McQuay: sermon planning, when we're developing out the
Pastor Brent McQuay: message, like, that came up and it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was like, okay, how do we get
Pastor Brent McQuay: people to crave the Word? And the
Pastor Brent McQuay: answer was like, well, Peter just says,
Pastor Brent McQuay: taste and see. The Lord is good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, if you. If you experience, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter doesn't have to like, be like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, you need this, you need that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: No, he just says, like, if you
Pastor Brent McQuay: have tasted that the Lord is good,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you'll crave the Word. Like spiritual milk.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like pure spiritual milk. Like, so. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: we gotta. We gotta taste it now.
Pastor Brent McQuay: To that, I think in the. Even
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the meeting, I stole from Bishop
Pastor Brent McQuay: Garlington, one of our overseers who used
Pastor Brent McQuay: to Say there's only two times when
Pastor Brent McQuay: you should pray, when you feel like
Pastor Brent McQuay: it, when you don't. And so I
Pastor Brent McQuay: just twisted it, and I was like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, there's only two times you should
Pastor Brent McQuay: be reading your Bible when you feel
Pastor Brent McQuay: like it and when you don't like
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's. The part of it is there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a spiritual discipline. And so we talk
Pastor Brent McQuay: about that as disciples. Like, as disciples,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we should be disciplined. Like, we have
Pastor Brent McQuay: to choose to do the hard things,
Pastor Brent McQuay: choose to do the things that maybe
Pastor Brent McQuay: we don't want to do in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: moment. And one of those things is
Pastor Brent McQuay: to study God's word. And what Peter
Pastor Brent McQuay: is coming in and saying is, if
Pastor Brent McQuay: you'll do that, if you'll do the
Pastor Brent McQuay: hard part and do it even when
Pastor Brent McQuay: you don't feel like it, you're gonna
Pastor Brent McQuay: taste and see and see that the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Lord is good. And now you're gonna
Pastor Brent McQuay: be like, I want more of that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And the first time this. This happened
Pastor Brent McQuay: for me, it's probably happened for everybody
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the room. The first time you
Pastor Brent McQuay: were reading your Bible, and all of
Pastor Brent McQuay: a sudden something just clicked. Something jumped
Pastor Brent McQuay: out at you. You saw yourself or
Pastor Brent McQuay: you saw how God was operating, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: it was like you were going through
Pastor Brent McQuay: something. And then you read a verse,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and it was like, thank you. This
Pastor Brent McQuay: is what I needed today that makes
Pastor Brent McQuay: you come back to the Bible. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you tasted it. You're like, this is
Pastor Brent McQuay: good. I want more of that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so we come back to it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: This is a salah moment.
Harry Valentine: It really is.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I like God's word.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You got some deep thought going over
Ti'heasha Beasley: there, Pastor Harry.
Harry Valentine: It really just touched me because, you
Harry Valentine: know, when you. When you taste like
Harry Valentine: the goodness of the Lord and you
Harry Valentine: start to think about your life before
Harry Valentine: you actually taste it, you know, it's
Harry Valentine: like, man, I don't deserve it. And
Harry Valentine: he just said, if you just taste,
Harry Valentine: just. Just see, like, just try me.
Harry Valentine: Yeah, try me. Like, your cravings will
Harry Valentine: dissipate of the world, and I will
Harry Valentine: give you something that is worth craving
Harry Valentine: for. And you're on this constant pursuit
Harry Valentine: to crave more of God. And that
Harry Valentine: has been, for me personally, just the
Harry Valentine: beauty and the difference of my life.
Harry Valentine: And just. Man, I don't know, just
Harry Valentine: had a moment there.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's a good reminder that we need
Pastor Brent McQuay: to remember where we came from.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yep.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, that's part of Peter's point that
Pastor Brent McQuay: he'll make later on is he's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you. You were once outside of God's
Pastor Brent McQuay: mercy. Now you're in it. You were
Pastor Brent McQuay: once nobody. Now you are God's. Own
Pastor Brent McQuay: people. I remember where you came from
Pastor Brent McQuay: then.
Harry Valentine: Gives you identity in that moment because.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You'Ve been born again now live like
Pastor Brent McQuay: it.
Harry Valentine: Come on.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, that's so good. Which, like you
Ti'heasha Beasley: said, leans to your point of proclaiming
Ti'heasha Beasley: it. And what I took from that
Ti'heasha Beasley: was like that testimony piece, like, remembering.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And then it. It reminds me a
Ti'heasha Beasley: lot of Pretty who's on the show,
Ti'heasha Beasley: actually, how her. She stands so strong
Ti'heasha Beasley: on her testimony, and she takes every
Ti'heasha Beasley: opportunity to tell you, like, God saved
Ti'heasha Beasley: me when I was smoking weed. You
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, like, that's her testimony throwing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Her business out there.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I mean, she put it out of
Ti'heasha Beasley: the podcast. Praise the Lord. But I
Ti'heasha Beasley: say that not like, for shame. Like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: we all have that thing where it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, God saved me when. Fill in
Ti'heasha Beasley: the blank.
Harry Valentine: That's mine.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, but it's like, that's how good
Ti'heasha Beasley: God is, you know, and just remembering
Ti'heasha Beasley: that, it kind of just. It's like
Ti'heasha Beasley: you. You give what you've received. So,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, when we're talking about loving people,
Ti'heasha Beasley: people and not walking in malice and
Ti'heasha Beasley: all those, if we just remember where
Ti'heasha Beasley: God took us from, then we see
Ti'heasha Beasley: people in a different light. Which is
Ti'heasha Beasley: why I think Paul. I mean, Paul
Ti'heasha Beasley: did it. Which is why I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: Peter starts with, like, the malice and
Ti'heasha Beasley: the strife and the envy and kind
Ti'heasha Beasley: of walks us through this journey. Like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: see, remember what God did for you
Ti'heasha Beasley: and why you shouldn't do this and
Ti'heasha Beasley: why you should crave his word. You
Ti'heasha Beasley: know what I mean? He takes us
Ti'heasha Beasley: on a journey.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So I love that your slip of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the tongue there. Paul does do that
Pastor Brent McQuay: a bunch, too. Yeah, right. Like, Paul
Pastor Brent McQuay: will constantly be, like, tying you back
Pastor Brent McQuay: to, like, hey, remember what used to
Pastor Brent McQuay: happen? Like, yes, you were once one
Pastor Brent McQuay: of those, but now. Yes, like, now,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Come on.
Harry Valentine: Now I just think about that. The
Harry Valentine: goodness of the Lord and then that
Harry Valentine: craving piece is like, if you experienced,
Harry Valentine: like, a great restaurant, you know that
Harry Valentine: you were like, man, that was just
Harry Valentine: great.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Rico Loco, baby.
Harry Valentine: You see what he did? You seen
Harry Valentine: what he did? He did a straight
Harry Valentine: plug several times.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Another restaurant in Tinley Park.
Harry Valentine: But he had an experience that was
Harry Valentine: worth sharing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I got. I would love to do
Pastor Brent McQuay: that for another restaurant in Tinley. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: just haven't had an experience at another
Pastor Brent McQuay: restaurant in Tinley like I've had.
Ti'heasha Beasley: If you're watching this and you own
Ti'heasha Beasley: a restaurant in T Park, send the
Ti'heasha Beasley: pastor leave pastor at Disciple Church.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Or maybe just tell me to go
Pastor Brent McQuay: to a place that's really good in.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We're trying to get sp.
Pastor Brent McQuay: My bad, my bad, my bad.
Harry Valentine: So no Different. You know, you've tasted
Harry Valentine: something, you experience something you want others
Harry Valentine: to experience. And I think that's exactly
Harry Valentine: what we should want to do or
Harry Valentine: should do as believers, is that we've
Harry Valentine: craved the word of God to the
Harry Valentine: point where we've tasted and seen the
Harry Valentine: goodness of the Lord. So now it's
Harry Valentine: our responsibility to not hold that in
Harry Valentine: right. And be selfish to the very
Harry Valentine: thing that we've experienced, but to share
Harry Valentine: and. And the goodness in the end
Harry Valentine: of the Lord.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so it's weird when I talk
Pastor Brent McQuay: with people about, like, the. The need
Pastor Brent McQuay: for evangelism and sharing your testimony, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: they're like, man, but I'm just so
Pastor Brent McQuay: nervous. Like, I don't know how to
Pastor Brent McQuay: do that. And it's like, have you
Pastor Brent McQuay: ever seen a really good movie and
Pastor Brent McQuay: then told your friend that they need
Pastor Brent McQuay: to go see it, too? Yeah. Have
Pastor Brent McQuay: you ever been to a really good
Pastor Brent McQuay: restaurant and you had to tell your
Pastor Brent McQuay: friend that they should go that restaurant,
Pastor Brent McQuay: too? Yeah. You ever listened to a
Pastor Brent McQuay: CD and it's like, man, this is
Pastor Brent McQuay: a great album. Like, have you gone
Pastor Brent McQuay: and told somebody else to listen to
Pastor Brent McQuay: it, too? Yeah. Has Jesus done anything
Pastor Brent McQuay: in your life worth telling somebody about?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because if. If not, then let's start
Pastor Brent McQuay: right there. But if he has, then
Pastor Brent McQuay: why are you putting that in a
Pastor Brent McQuay: different category?
Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, you got no problem being like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, you got to check out this
Pastor Brent McQuay: restaurant. It's amazing.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's so true. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Check out this Jesus. He's amazing.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Man. Some good conversation. I. To your.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You have. We have two more points,
Ti'heasha Beasley: but the win the war piece and
Ti'heasha Beasley: just staying. I'm wondering, as a storyteller
Ti'heasha Beasley: or writer, why he puts that there.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, between, like. I mean, at the
Ti'heasha Beasley: end of, like, okay, no malice, no
Ti'heasha Beasley: this. Think about the goodness of God,
Ti'heasha Beasley: proclaim it, and then win the war.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I feel like that should be before
Ti'heasha Beasley: we get to. But I feel like
Ti'heasha Beasley: there's a purpose there. I think he's
Ti'heasha Beasley: just saying, stay the course.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. He's basically saying he's connecting, so
Pastor Brent McQuay: he goes to their salvation in Christ
Pastor Brent McQuay: and all this. And so this is
Pastor Brent McQuay: another one of his therefore moments. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: so, like, you've been saved by the
Pastor Brent McQuay: grace and the mercy of Jesus Christ,
Pastor Brent McQuay: therefore, you need to abstain from the
Pastor Brent McQuay: passions of the flesh.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, we can't. We can't be new
Pastor Brent McQuay: and still do the old thing.
Harry Valentine: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so you've been made new. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: time to do the new thing. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: the new thing is to abstain from
Pastor Brent McQuay: the passion of the flesh. And he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: tying it Again, to. We are to
Pastor Brent McQuay: proclaim him. And I, I brought this
Pastor Brent McQuay: out in the message that, like, when
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're sharing your testimony, the thing that
Pastor Brent McQuay: makes the person listening to it go
Pastor Brent McQuay: more than anything else is when they
Pastor Brent McQuay: look at your life and they're like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, but you, you're not living this
Pastor Brent McQuay: out, right?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I don't even think you believe
Pastor Brent McQuay: what you're telling me right now, because
Pastor Brent McQuay: if you did, then. Or like the
Pastor Brent McQuay: example I gave, like, when, when somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, you're like, man, this is a
Pastor Brent McQuay: sin in your life. This is a
Pastor Brent McQuay: sin in your life. And that person
Pastor Brent McQuay: just happens to have grown up in
Pastor Brent McQuay: church maybe, and they're like, yeah, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: that thing that you were doing yesterday,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's also a sin.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so we're both in sin. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: the answer is yes, but like, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: hypocrisy of saying, you need to fix
Pastor Brent McQuay: yourself, but I don't have to fix
Pastor Brent McQuay: myself. That's messed up. So I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's the connection piece. So he's saying,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're born again, now there's a new
Pastor Brent McQuay: way to live. We're proclaiming him. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: thing that's going to mess up your
Pastor Brent McQuay: proclamation of how good God is is
Pastor Brent McQuay: when you keep doing foolishness, really bad
Pastor Brent McQuay: things.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Harry Valentine: I tell my kids all the time,
Harry Valentine: protect your witness, because that's what you
Harry Valentine: have as a believer. And so what
Harry Valentine: you reflect, people will hold you to
Harry Valentine: that very thing. And the moment they
Harry Valentine: see something outside of that, they're going
Harry Valentine: to remind you of it. And I
Harry Valentine: think that fighting piece, man, fight for
Harry Valentine: what you believe and no hey win
Harry Valentine: award. The thing is we fight from
Harry Valentine: a w. We fight from a win.
Harry Valentine: Jesus has won it all. And so
Harry Valentine: we don't. It's not as if we're.
Harry Valentine: We're looking to, you know, do more
Harry Valentine: than what Jesus done, but we do
Harry Valentine: have to protect the very thing that
Harry Valentine: we believe. And so when we go
Harry Valentine: back to verse one, that's. That's you
Harry Valentine: protecting your witness. Yeah, I, I need
Harry Valentine: to go and I need to apologize
Harry Valentine: to my brother and my sister about,
Harry Valentine: hey, if I had a moment and
Harry Valentine: I, you know, I slipped up, I
Harry Valentine: did this. That's protecting your witness. That's.
Harry Valentine: That's you fighting the war because you
Harry Valentine: are a representation of our Lord and
Harry Valentine: Savior, Jesus Christ.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Harry Valentine: Right. And so protecting your witness is
Harry Valentine: so important.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Harry Valentine: So vital.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Absolutely. And it's not to say that
Pastor Brent McQuay: any of that's going to be easy
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do.
Harry Valentine: True.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Cuz like, that's why he describes it
Pastor Brent McQuay: as a war. Like, wars are rough
Pastor Brent McQuay: like it's.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You going to get beat up.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's bloody. Like it's a war raging
Pastor Brent McQuay: in sin side of your soul. Like
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's.
Harry Valentine: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like you can be alone with your
Pastor Brent McQuay: thoughts and the war is raging.
Harry Valentine: That's true.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You don't even need somebody else, right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: To have this battle. Like it's, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: happening just you, you're alone in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: room and you're fighting. And so like
Pastor Brent McQuay: that doesn't mean it's easy. But, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: we can win it. And so I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think I gave a few practical tips
Pastor Brent McQuay: for how to, how to win that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And the Bible as, as a whole
Pastor Brent McQuay: gives others. And so yeah, we just
Pastor Brent McQuay: need to keep fighting. Fight the good
Pastor Brent McQuay: fight.
Harry Valentine: Yep.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So good. Woo. It's hard out here
Ti'heasha Beasley: in east Christian streets, man.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah man, I, I hate that some
Pastor Brent McQuay: people heard a gospel message that, that
Pastor Brent McQuay: said if you give your life to
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus, everything's going to be easy. Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Cuz then they gave their life to
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus and life didn't get any easier.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So their, their conclusion was then Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: isn't real. Right. The conclusion should have
Pastor Brent McQuay: been you lied to me. You told
Pastor Brent McQuay: me there's something that's not true. Because
Pastor Brent McQuay: I picked up my Bible and here
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter's talking about suffering as Christ suffered.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But if I give my life to
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus and everything's gonna be fine. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but, but why am I suffering? Yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: well, yeah, because suffering is a part
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the life that we have.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's true, man. And it goes as
Ti'heasha Beasley: we end with this honor piece. I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: gonna tell you the truth, I was
Ti'heasha Beasley: struggling. Not that I don't honor my
Ti'heasha Beasley: leaders now. Like you and Pastor Soul
Ti'heasha Beasley: are great Mama Chris, you know, Jerry,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you know, but I've sat under other
Ti'heasha Beasley: leaders where I'm like, yo, we don't
Ti'heasha Beasley: want any.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We got to put away all slander.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I know, but I'm just saying I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: speaking. I gotta let you know where
Ti'heasha Beasley: I came from, how I got here.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But no, it was, it was like
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm reading that and I'm like asking
Ti'heasha Beasley: God like, man, God like. But people
Ti'heasha Beasley: be. They are. Can be a mess
Ti'heasha Beasley: and honor.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So I mean, yeah, let, I don't
Ti'heasha Beasley: want to say let's unpack that. But
Ti'heasha Beasley: what is some good practical. Because I
Ti'heasha Beasley: like practical things. Ways we could. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: mean you kind of listed it out
Ti'heasha Beasley: and Peter did too in his passage
Ti'heasha Beasley: of how we should honor these people.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But I like the question pretty posed
Ti'heasha Beasley: this morning in staff chapel or when
Ti'heasha Beasley: we were in staff meeting and she
Ti'heasha Beasley: said, well, what if you know someone
Ti'heasha Beasley: Isn't intentionally trying to push those buttons
Ti'heasha Beasley: or just like you said the back
Ti'heasha Beasley: then, he was burning Christians in his
Ti'heasha Beasley: garden. Like, how do you honor like.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, and not just in works. How
Ti'heasha Beasley: do I honor this person in heart
Ti'heasha Beasley: and really mean it? Like, you know
Ti'heasha Beasley: what? I'm going to honor this person,
Ti'heasha Beasley: submit to this person. And I know
Ti'heasha Beasley: that they intentionally, like, they do not
Ti'heasha Beasley: like me. They don't want to see
Ti'heasha Beasley: me win. They don't want nothing good
Ti'heasha Beasley: to come from my life. How do
Ti'heasha Beasley: we walk that out?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Remember the Gospel, Jesus died for sinners,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and so Jesus thought Nero was worth
Pastor Brent McQuay: dying for. So who are we to
Pastor Brent McQuay: say I'm gonna mistreat that person or
Pastor Brent McQuay: degrade them or anything? No, honor is
Pastor Brent McQuay: about recognizing that we're all made in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the image of God. And so I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think that that's. Man, that can be
Pastor Brent McQuay: really hard. And I've had people in
Pastor Brent McQuay: my life who were in authority over
Pastor Brent McQuay: me that abused me, that, that mis.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Mistreated me, that mistreated my wife. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we've got stories of stuff, but we've
Pastor Brent McQuay: got some stories that we don't even
Pastor Brent McQuay: share because at this stage of our
Pastor Brent McQuay: lives, there's no way to share the
Pastor Brent McQuay: story without it becoming an attack against
Pastor Brent McQuay: the person that did it. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: we choose to keep our mouth shut
Pastor Brent McQuay: on something, and that's our way of
Pastor Brent McQuay: honoring them. So, yeah, it's tricky. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: hard, it's not easy. But I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: it begins with remembering the gospel, that
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus died for that person in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: same way he died for you. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: if you don't think that person deserves
Pastor Brent McQuay: it, you probably don't either.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Well, that'll do it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That'll do it.
Harry Valentine: Disappear, period on that. That's it. I.
Harry Valentine: I can't even.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, yeah, I didn't mean to
Pastor Brent McQuay: shut down the conversation. It's just. That's
Pastor Brent McQuay: the heaviness of my heart is, Is
Pastor Brent McQuay: just. It's the gospel. Like, we don't.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We don't pick and choose who Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: died for. No. And we want all
Pastor Brent McQuay: man. There's this image. I think I
Pastor Brent McQuay: brought this up a while back when
Pastor Brent McQuay: we were talking something about Paul, like
Pastor Brent McQuay: the beauty of the gospel. I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: this is how I phrase it. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: beauty of the gospel is that when
Pastor Brent McQuay: Paul died and walked through the gates
Pastor Brent McQuay: of heaven, he was greeted by the
Pastor Brent McQuay: people he persecuted. And they greeted him
Pastor Brent McQuay: with joy and love and honor because
Pastor Brent McQuay: what they wanted most was for him
Pastor Brent McQuay: to know Jesus. Can we do the
Pastor Brent McQuay: same? Can the person that is been
Pastor Brent McQuay: treating you so poorly if they were
Pastor Brent McQuay: to give their Life to Jesus. Could
Pastor Brent McQuay: you celebrate that? And if you can't,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're the one in sin. Say it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, I can celebrate them coming to
Ti'heasha Beasley: Christ because they not that way no
Ti'heasha Beasley: more.
Harry Valentine: Wow, that is so good. It is,
Harry Valentine: but it is. That's the good news.
Harry Valentine: Yeah, that is the good news. It's.
Harry Valentine: Here's the thing we have to remember.
Harry Valentine: We all sit on the other side.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Absolutely.
Harry Valentine: Regardless of where you were in that.
Harry Valentine: On the other side. We all sat
Harry Valentine: there because the sin that kept us
Harry Valentine: distant from the Lord. And so when
Harry Valentine: it comes to this, this place of
Harry Valentine: honor, he's not giving us a choice.
Harry Valentine: It's not a, you know, checkbox or
Harry Valentine: yes or no. It's no. You must,
Harry Valentine: you should honor those. And I love
Harry Valentine: what you said. It's because, one, I
Harry Valentine: honor my Lord Jesus, you know, my
Harry Valentine: Savior. And so I want to be
Harry Valentine: representation of who he is, a Christ
Harry Valentine: representation of his character, his nature. And
Harry Valentine: so you do that, you honor. You
Harry Valentine: may not agree with everything, but in
Harry Valentine: love, you honor those who are in
Harry Valentine: leadership. And I know another part of
Harry Valentine: it, too, that came to my mind
Harry Valentine: is that oftentimes we think about Nero
Harry Valentine: and how even, you know, how Peter
Harry Valentine: established, like, hey, you know, you still
Harry Valentine: honor those who are in authority, but
Harry Valentine: the world lives by the world's standards.
Harry Valentine: Right. And so their standard is different
Harry Valentine: than our standard. And so we are
Harry Valentine: yet still called to love them and
Harry Valentine: honor them. But some of the things
Harry Valentine: that they do is almost. We kind
Harry Valentine: of expect it because it's the world's
Harry Valentine: behaviors, you know, and so we can't
Harry Valentine: be so critical about, man, they doing
Harry Valentine: this, they're doing that. It's like, what
Harry Valentine: do you expect? But for us, our
Harry Valentine: behavior is not of the world. And
Harry Valentine: so we respond totally different than how
Harry Valentine: the world acts.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. And, man, I don't even know
Pastor Brent McQuay: if we mentioned this in week one
Pastor Brent McQuay: when we talked about Nero being the
Pastor Brent McQuay: emperor, but both Peter and Paul will
Pastor Brent McQuay: end up being executed under Nero. Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, we didn't. Intense.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The emperor that Peter said to honor
Pastor Brent McQuay: is the same emperor that has him
Pastor Brent McQuay: killed, crucified, upside down. Yep.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That is intense.
Harry Valentine: So if we compare that to your
Harry Valentine: situation, it's not comparable. It's not. It's
Harry Valentine: not honor. Yes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Done, man. Yeah, well, it's a lot
Ti'heasha Beasley: to chew on. No, I'm just playing,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you know, it is. I, I, I.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What a heavy weight.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm trying to figure out.
Pastor Brent McQuay: How do you segue that one?
Ti'heasha Beasley: We can land this plane with some
Ti'heasha Beasley: good takeaways, man.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We're in the middle of, like, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: worst turbulence ever. I was like, let's
Pastor Brent McQuay: put this plane on the ground.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I was two steps away from having
Ti'heasha Beasley: a whole breakdown on a shot.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Laughter is good medicine.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's all right. No, it is okay.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes, let's land the plane. So what
Ti'heasha Beasley: are. What are your takeaways for those
Ti'heasha Beasley: who are watching? Who wants to start,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I guess, to.
Harry Valentine: To the believer, the disciple of Jesus,
Harry Valentine: Reflect, self. Reflect each day, right? Each
Harry Valentine: day, take a look at. Take an
Harry Valentine: inventory of self. Just kind of see
Harry Valentine: where you are in the behaviors of
Harry Valentine: the believer that Peter is speaking to.
Harry Valentine: And then make sure that you align
Harry Valentine: whatever area that needs to align to
Harry Valentine: his will and his word so that
Harry Valentine: you could protect your witness, you know,
Harry Valentine: because that's the most important part through
Harry Valentine: it all. That's what we are here
Harry Valentine: for. And so if you. If you
Harry Valentine: don't protect your witness, then can you
Harry Valentine: call yourself a disciple of Jesus? That's
Harry Valentine: my takeaway.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's tough. And it's. It's funny because,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, nobody. Nobody wants you to. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: nobody wants to hear somebody say, well,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you aren't really, like, in the mix.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, you're not really a disciple.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: However, that's kind of why I love
Pastor Brent McQuay: the word disciple, because. Because it shows
Pastor Brent McQuay: up so much in the New Testament
Pastor Brent McQuay: that you can actually point to places
Pastor Brent McQuay: where it says, if you're a disciple,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you'll do this.
Harry Valentine: That's right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And if you're a disciple, you won't
Pastor Brent McQuay: do this. And so if you are
Pastor Brent McQuay: guilty of doing this thing that you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: not supposed to do, or you're not
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing this thing you're supposed to do,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that defines you as a disciple. That
Pastor Brent McQuay: means you're not a disciple.
Harry Valentine: Like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like Jesus says, they're going to know
Pastor Brent McQuay: you by your love for one another.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, if you. If you can't even
Pastor Brent McQuay: love Christians.
Harry Valentine: You'Re not sitting with sinners at all.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, are you a disciple at the
Pastor Brent McQuay: point? Like Jesus said, you'll truly be
Pastor Brent McQuay: my disciple when you abide in my
Pastor Brent McQuay: Word. Like, abide in my Word and
Pastor Brent McQuay: you are truly my disciple. So, yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that piece right there, that doesn't feel
Pastor Brent McQuay: good. Nobody wants to be like, well,
Pastor Brent McQuay: who are you to say who's in
Pastor Brent McQuay: and who's out? I'm nobody.
Harry Valentine: It's the Word.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm absolutely no one. Yeah, but read
Pastor Brent McQuay: this verse and tell me what you
Pastor Brent McQuay: think. Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, that's good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: All right. That's not my takeaway. That
Pastor Brent McQuay: was just my base. I like what
Pastor Brent McQuay: Harry's saying. I know you got to
Pastor Brent McQuay: go to an appointment. Clearly, I'm Just
Pastor Brent McQuay: a jerk. Clearly. So I think my
Pastor Brent McQuay: takeaway is I, I can't tell you
Pastor Brent McQuay: which of the five things that people.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter's telling you to do is the
Pastor Brent McQuay: most important. Like you got to do
Pastor Brent McQuay: all five.
Harry Valentine: Sure.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But I will say trying to do
Pastor Brent McQuay: all five of those things this week
Pastor Brent McQuay: is going to be impossible. Like, you've
Pastor Brent McQuay: got to break it down into like
Pastor Brent McQuay: bite sized chunks. And I think the
Pastor Brent McQuay: best way to do that is sit
Pastor Brent McQuay: with those five, pray, ask the Holy
Pastor Brent McQuay: Spirit to help you. If you still
Pastor Brent McQuay: can't figure out which one of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: five, then talk to whoever's closest to
Pastor Brent McQuay: you. Your spouse or somebody in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: home. Hey, which one of these five
Pastor Brent McQuay: do you think I need to work
Pastor Brent McQuay: on the most? If they don't know
Pastor Brent McQuay: or you don't have anybody in that
Pastor Brent McQuay: role, then just start from the top
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the list and work your way
Pastor Brent McQuay: down, I guess. But like, pick one.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Pick one and make that your focus,
Pastor Brent McQuay: make that your emphasis. And I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: at the end of the, at the
Pastor Brent McQuay: end of the time, you're gonna need
Pastor Brent McQuay: all five. But start with one.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Maybe it's to put away those things.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Maybe it's, it's to what was next?
Pastor Brent McQuay: To crave the word. Maybe it's to
Pastor Brent McQuay: proclaim him. Maybe it's winning the war
Pastor Brent McQuay: or maybe it's honoring somebody. I, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't know. I don't know which one
Pastor Brent McQuay: in your life is most important right
Pastor Brent McQuay: now, but it's. I'm sure it's something.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Now you got me thinking. I'm like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: what do I need to. Let's go
Ti'heasha Beasley: around and share? No, I'm just playing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think you already kind of admitted
Pastor Brent McQuay: the honor everyone is, is, is tricky
Pastor Brent McQuay: for you right now.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Well, well, not right now. That was,
Ti'heasha Beasley: that was a season I walked through
Ti'heasha Beasley: and it just, yeah. Triggered some things.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But my takeaway is verse nine. But
Ti'heasha Beasley: you are a chosen race, a royal
Ti'heasha Beasley: priesthood, a holy nation, a people for
Ti'heasha Beasley: his own possession, that you may proclaim
Ti'heasha Beasley: the excellencies of him who've called you
Ti'heasha Beasley: out of darkness into a marvelous is
Ti'heasha Beasley: light.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're all these things that you may
Pastor Brent McQuay: proclaim. Sorry.
Ti'heasha Beasley: As a preacher. He's okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I know I have one.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, go ahead.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You need to know. You need to
Pastor Brent McQuay: do your thing.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Go ahead.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The royal priesthood, like that's such a,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's such a, A cool phrase because
Pastor Brent McQuay: for the Jewish people there wasn't a
Pastor Brent McQuay: royal priesthood like that. The. So royalty
Pastor Brent McQuay: came from the line of Judah, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: priesthood came from the line of Levi.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like it was two separate entities, two
Pastor Brent McQuay: separate groups that Any time before Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: when they would, like, mix those two
Pastor Brent McQuay: groups, it ended up really bad. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Saul tried to take on the role
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the priest, and it was, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: really bad. There's a couple other moments
Pastor Brent McQuay: later on with some of the kings
Pastor Brent McQuay: that, like, they try and do the
Pastor Brent McQuay: priestly duties, and it's just, like, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: destructive for. For the. The people. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's. These are two separate concepts until
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus, because Jesus is the king of
Pastor Brent McQuay: kings and our high priest. So Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: is the first royal priest. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's just like this beautiful moment of
Pastor Brent McQuay: now. Now as the king of kings
Pastor Brent McQuay: and high priests, he's making us like
Pastor Brent McQuay: him.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, that's good. That's good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So royal priesthood, like, it just sounds
Pastor Brent McQuay: nice, but it actually has, like. There's
Pastor Brent McQuay: some meat to that. Yeah, right there.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, that's good. That.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sorry, I just.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, that's. That makes my point that
Ti'heasha Beasley: much sweeter. So thank you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Beautiful.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Thank you. Because those are heavy words.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And the world will try to put
Ti'heasha Beasley: other titles on you, and you may
Ti'heasha Beasley: even put other titles on yourself, and
Ti'heasha Beasley: that caused you to act an old
Ti'heasha Beasley: man. Oh, flesh. But I feel like
Ti'heasha Beasley: this passage is really encouraging us. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: feel like Peter is just reminding us
Ti'heasha Beasley: who we are, who we belong to,
Ti'heasha Beasley: and how we should be behaving. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: so that is my takeaway.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep. And that is the message of
Pastor Brent McQuay: First Peter.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. So we love you, and we
Ti'heasha Beasley: hope that this message is rocking you
Ti'heasha Beasley: like it's rocking us, because y' all
Ti'heasha Beasley: seeing in real time how we being
Ti'heasha Beasley: rocked by this message. So let us
Ti'heasha Beasley: know if you have any questions or
Ti'heasha Beasley: comments. And until next week, we love
Ti'heasha Beasley: you and we are praying for you.
Ti'heasha Beasley: God bless.